- 769 -
This is the Chronicle of House Isauros, in which is contained the record of its yearly fortunes, glories and difficulties.
Basileus Konstantinos V of the Byzantine Empire went to war against High Chief Vojislav of Rashka.
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Greek realm of Armeniacon, ruled by Strategos Olvianos.
Basileus Konstantinos V of the Byzantine Empire tried but failed to imprison Strategos Olvianos of Armeniacon, causing him to come out in open rebellion.
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Greek realm of Dorylaionian Peasant Revolt, ruled by Porphyrios.

- 770 -
The army of Basileus Konstantinos V of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Mayor Symmachos of Pempton, was victorious in the battle of Kaisereia against the armies of Armeniacon.
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Greek realm of Naxosian Peasant Revolt, ruled by Pelagios.
The army of Basileus Konstantinos V of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Mayor Symmachos of Pempton, was victorious in the battle of Kaisereia against the armies of Armeniacon.
The army of Basileus Konstantinos V of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Mayor Symmachos of Pempton, was victorious in the battle of Sinope against the armies of Armeniacon.

- 771 -
The army of Basileus Konstantinos V of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Maximos of Aegean Islands, was victorious in the battle of Naxos against the armies of Naxosian Peasant Revolt.
Pelagios of Naxosian Peasant Revolt lost the war against Basileus Konstantinos V of the Byzantine Empire.
Basileus Konstantinos V of the Byzantine Empire, through deeds and character, came to be known as Basileus Konstantinos V 'the Butcher'.
The army of Basileus Konstantinos V of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Sebastos of Cherson, was defeated in the battle of Cherson against the armies of Khazaria.
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Greek realm of Herakleian Peasant Revolt, ruled by Anthimos.
Strategos Olvianos of Armeniacon lost the war against Basileus Konstantinos V of the Byzantine Empire 'the Butcher'.
The army of Basileus Konstantinos V of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Manthos of Dyrrachion, was victorious in the battle of Herakleia against the armies of Herakleian Peasant Revolt.
Anthimos of Herakleian Peasant Revolt lost the war against Basileus Konstantinos V of the Byzantine Empire 'the Butcher'.
The army of Basileus Konstantinos V of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Sebastos of Cherson, was defeated in the battle of Cherson against the armies of Khazaria.
The army of Basileus Konstantinos V of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Manthos of Dyrrachion, was victorious in the battle of Dorylaion against the armies of Dorylaionian Peasant Revolt.
Porphyrios of Dorylaionian Peasant Revolt lost the war against Basileus Konstantinos V of the Byzantine Empire 'the Butcher'.
The army of Basileus Konstantinos V of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Sebastos of Cherson, was defeated in the battle of Cherson against the armies of Khazaria.
The army of Basileus Konstantinos V of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Sebastos of Cherson, was defeated in the battle of Cherson against the armies of Khazaria.

- 772 -
The army of Basileus Konstantinos V of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Manthos of Dyrrachion, was victorious in the battle of Rashka against the armies of Rashka.
Basileus Konstantinos V of the Byzantine Empire 'the Butcher' won the war against High Chief Vojislav of Rashka.
Konstantinos Isauros usurped the Duchy of Rascia from Vojislav Vlastimirovic.
Basileus Konstantinos V of the Byzantine Empire converted from Iconoclast to Orthodox.

- 773 -
The army of Basileus Konstantinos V of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Andronikos, was defeated in the battle of Sinope against the armies of Täbär's Host.

- 774 -
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Greek realm of Aegean Islands, ruled by Strategos Maximos 'the Fat'.
Basileus Konstantinos V of the Byzantine Empire 'the Butcher' tried but failed to imprison Strategos Maximos of Aegean Islands 'the Fat', causing him to come out in open rebellion.
The army of Basileus Konstantinos V of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Manthos of Dyrrachion, was victorious in the battle of Kyzikos against the armies of Aegean Islands.
The army of Basileus Konstantinos V of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Manthos of Dyrrachion, was victorious in the battle of Prusa against the armies of Aegean Islands.

- 775 -
Strategos Maximos of Aegean Islands 'the Fat' lost the war against Basileus Konstantinos V of the Byzantine Empire 'the Butcher'.
Konstantinos Isauros created the title of Duchy of Mallorca, confirming his growing power with much ceremony and celebration.

- 776 -
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Greek realm of Verissa, ruled by Mayor Philaretos.
Basileus Konstantinos V of the Byzantine Empire 'the Butcher' tried but failed to imprison Mayor Philaretos of Verissa, causing him to come out in open rebellion.
Mayor Philaretos of Verissa lost the war against Basileus Konstantinos V of the Byzantine Empire 'the Butcher'.
Basileus Konstantinos V of the Byzantine Empire went to war against Khan Krum of Bulgaria.

- 777 -
The army of Basileus Konstantinos V of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Mayor Tarkhan of Paphos, was victorious in the battle of Iskandarun against the armies of Orthodox Uprising.

- 778 -
The army of Basileus Konstantinos V of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Leon of Athens, was victorious in the battle of Tyrnovo against the armies of Bulgaria.

- 779 -
The army of Basileus Konstantinos V of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Leon of Athens, was victorious in the battle of Severin against the armies of Bulgaria.
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Greek realm of Byzantine Revolt, ruled by Isaakios.
Basileus Konstantinos V of the Byzantine Empire 'the Butcher' won the war against Khan Omortag of Bulgaria.
The Iconoclast heresy spread its woeful presence in the county of Dorylaion.
The army of Basileus Konstantinos V of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Leon of Athens, was victorious in the battle of Prusa against the armies of Byzantine Revolt.

- 780 -
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Greek realm of Iconoclast Uprising, ruled by Raphail.
The army of Basileus Konstantinos V of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Leon of Athens, was victorious in the battle of Dorylaion against the armies of Iconoclast Uprising.
Raphail of Iconoclast Uprising lost the war against Basileus Konstantinos V of the Byzantine Empire 'the Butcher'.
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Greek realm of Byzantine Revolt, ruled by Aetios.
The army of Basileus Konstantinos V of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Leon of Athens, was victorious in the battle of Paphlagonia against the armies of Byzantine Revolt.
The army of Basileus Konstantinos V of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Leon of Athens, was victorious in the battle of Ikonion against the armies of Byzantine Revolt.
The army of Basileus Konstantinos V of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Leon of Athens, was victorious in the battle of Kaisereia against the armies of Byzantine Revolt.
The army of Basileus Konstantinos V of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Leon of Athens, was victorious in the battle of Theodosiopolis against the armies of Byzantine Revolt.

- 781 -
Isaakios of Byzantine Revolt lost the war against Basileus Konstantinos V of the Byzantine Empire 'the Butcher'.
The army of Basileus Konstantinos V of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Leon of Athens, was victorious in the battle of Amisos against the armies of Byzantine Revolt.
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Greek realm of Iconoclast Uprising, ruled by Maurikios.
The army of Basileus Konstantinos V of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Michael of Anatolia, was victorious in the battle of Dorylaion against the armies of Iconoclast Uprising.
Maurikios of Iconoclast Uprising lost the war against Basileus Konstantinos V of the Byzantine Empire 'the Butcher'.

- 782 -
The army of Basileus Konstantinos V of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Leon of Athens, was victorious in the battle of Paphlagonia against the armies of Byzantine Revolt.

- 783 -
The army of Basileus Konstantinos V of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Leon of Athens, was victorious in the battle of Paphlagonia against the armies of Byzantine Revolt.
Prince Nikephoros of the Byzantine Empire married Amaudru, daughter of King Karl of West Francia.
The army of Basileus Konstantinos V of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Leon of Athens, was victorious in the battle of Lazike against the armies of Byzantine Revolt.
Aetios of Byzantine Revolt 'the Black' lost the war against Basileus Konstantinos V of the Byzantine Empire 'the Butcher'.

- 784 -
In Turnu, the people celebrated the benevolent rule of Basileus Konstantinos V.

- 785 -
A strange plague killed thousands of wild rabbits in the county of Lesbos.

- 786 -
The army of Basileus Konstantinos V of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Leon of Athens, was victorious in the battle of Yegorlyk against the armies of Bukhal.

- 787 -
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Khazar realm of Khazarian Liberation Revolt, ruled by Çorpan.
Prince Nikephoros of the Byzantine Empire married Theognosia, daughter of Strategos Dositheos of Charsianon.
The army of Basileus Konstantinos V of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Leon of Athens, was victorious in the battle of Theodosia against the armies of Khazarian Liberation Revolt.
Çorpan of Khazarian Liberation Revolt lost the war against Basileus Konstantinos V of the Byzantine Empire 'the Butcher'.

- 788 -
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Greek realm of Trapanian Peasant Revolt, ruled by Herakleios.

- 789 -
The army of Basileus Konstantinos V of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Count Gregorios of Neapolis, was victorious in the battle of Drepanon against the armies of Trapanian Peasant Revolt.
Herakleios of Trapanian Peasant Revolt lost the war against Basileus Konstantinos V of the Byzantine Empire 'the Butcher'.
Basileus Konstantinos V of the Byzantine Empire went to war against King Taino of Lombardy.

- 790 -
Basileus Konstantinos V of the Byzantine Empire 'the Butcher' won the war against King Taino of Lombardy.

- 791 -
The army of Basileus Konstantinos V of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Count Gregorios of Neapolis, was victorious in the battle of Theodosia against the armies of Ashina.

- 792 -
Basilissa Eudokia, the wife of Basileus Konstantinos V of the Byzantine Empire, died a natural death on 21 September, 792.

- 793 -
Norsemen set sail in their longships and to trade and raid beyond their northern homelands in ever increasing numbers, signalling the beginning of a new age.
Basileus Konstantinos V of the Byzantine Empire went to war against Pope Pascal.

- 794 -
The army of Basileus Konstantinos V of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Count Gregorios of Neapolis, was victorious in the battle of Torres against the armies of the The Papacy.
The armies of the Byzantine Empire, led by Strategos Sebastos of Cherson, captured Roma.
The army of Basileus Konstantinos V of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Count Gregorios of Neapolis, was victorious in the battle of Adrianopolis against the armies of the The Papacy.
Basileus Konstantinos V of the Byzantine Empire 'the Butcher' won the war against Pope Pascal 'the Holy'.
Konstantinos Isauros usurped the County of Rome from Pascal.

- 795 -
Ecumenical Patriarch Alexios, leader of all Orthodox faithful, died frothing at the mouth on 1 May, 795.
Basileus Konstantinos V of the Byzantine Empire died of depression on 26 July, 795. His son, Nikephoros, succeeded to the throne of the Empire with a grand ceremony in Amisos.

Strange and wonderful serpents were seen in Sozopolis.

- 796 -
The army of Basileus Nikephoros of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Count Gregorios of Neapolis, was victorious in the battle of Trapezous against the armies of Bezmer's Host.
The army of Basileus Nikephoros of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Count Gregorios of Neapolis, was victorious in the battle of Abkhazia against the armies of Bukhal.
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Italian realm of the The Papacy, ruled by Pope Pascal 'the Holy'.
The army of Basileus Nikephoros of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Count Gregorios of Neapolis, was victorious in the battle of Lukania against the armies of the The Papacy.

- 797 -
Pope Pascal 'the Holy' lost the war against Basileus Nikephoros of the Byzantine Empire.
Basileus Nikephoros of the Byzantine Empire went to war against Duchess Tamari of Kartli.

- 798 -
The army of Basileus Nikephoros of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Count Gregorios of Neapolis, was victorious in the battle of Lazike against the armies of Kartli.
The army of Basileus Nikephoros of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Count Gregorios of Neapolis, was victorious in the battle of Kartli against the armies of Kartli.

- 799 -
Basileus Nikephoros of the Byzantine Empire won the war against Duchess Tamari of Kartli 'the Evil'.
Nikephoros Isauros usurped the County of Kakheti from Tamari Guramiani.
Basileus Nikephoros of the Byzantine Empire went to war against Emir Ishaq of the Subaid Emirate.
The army of Basileus Nikephoros of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Megistos, was victorious in the battle of Iskandarun against the armies of the Subaid Emirate.

- 800 -
Basileus Nikephoros of the Byzantine Empire won the war against Emir Khudayar of the Subaid Emirate.
Basileus Nikephoros of the Byzantine Empire went to war against Khan Tähtaman of Bulgaria.
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Greek realm of Theodosiopolis, ruled by Count Niketas.
Basileus Nikephoros of the Byzantine Empire tried but failed to imprison Count Niketas of Theodosiopolis, causing him to come out in open rebellion.
The army of Basileus Nikephoros of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Megistos, was victorious in the battle of Kaliopolis against the armies of Adrianopolis.

- 801 -
The army of Basileus Nikephoros of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Megistos, was victorious in the battle of Nikopolis against the armies of Croatia.
The army of Basileus Nikephoros of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Martinos of Sicily, was victorious in the battle of Tao against the armies of Theodosiopolis.
Prince Niketas of the Byzantine Empire lost the war against Basileus Nikephoros of the Byzantine Empire.
Nikephoros Isauros usurped the Duchy of Adrianopolis from Theophanes Monotes.
The army of Basileus Nikephoros of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Megistos, was victorious in the battle of Mesembria against the armies of Volhynia.

- 802 -
Basileus Nikephoros of the Byzantine Empire won the war against Khan Tähtaman of Bulgaria 'the Witch Hunter'.
Nikephoros Isauros created the title of Duchy of Wallachia, confirming his growing power with much ceremony and celebration.

- 803 -
The army of Basileus Nikephoros of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Mayor Chrysanthos of Neapol, was defeated in the battle of Cherson against the armies of Ashina.

- 804 -
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Greek realm of Nikaea, ruled by Strategos Chrysanthos.
Basileus Nikephoros of the Byzantine Empire tried but failed to imprison Strategos Chrysanthos of Nikaea, causing him to come out in open rebellion.
The army of Basileus Nikephoros of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Captain Frirek of Varangian Guard, was victorious in the battle of Nikomedeia against the armies of Nikaea.
The army of Basileus Nikephoros of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Captain Frirek of Varangian Guard, was victorious in the battle of Dorylaion against the armies of Nikaea.
Basileus Nikephoros of the Byzantine Empire died frothing at the mouth on 23 November, 804. His son, Raphail, succeeded to the throne of the Empire with a grand ceremony in Constantinople.

Raphail Isauros usurped the Duchy of Antioch from Khudayar Subaid.
Raphail Isauros created the title of Duchy of Lukania, confirming his growing power with much ceremony and celebration.

- 805 -
The army of Basileus Raphail of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Captain Frirek of Varangian Guard, was victorious in the battle of Dorylaion against the armies of Nikaea.
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Italian realm of the The Papacy, ruled by Pope Pascal 'the Holy'.
The army of Basileus Raphail of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Captain Frirek of Varangian Guard, was victorious in the battle of Prusa against the armies of Nikaea.
Strategos Chrysanthos of Nikaea lost the war against Basileus Raphail of the Byzantine Empire.
Pope Pascal 'the Holy' lost the war against Basileus Raphail of the Byzantine Empire.

- 806 -
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Greek realm of Wallachia, ruled by Strategos Demetrios.
Basileus Raphail of the Byzantine Empire tried but failed to imprison Strategos Demetrios of Wallachia, causing him to come out in open rebellion.
Strategos Demetrios of Wallachia lost the war against Basileus Raphail of the Byzantine Empire.

- 807 -
Raphail Isauros usurped the Duchy of Karvuna from Okhsi Dulo.
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Greek realm of Paulician Uprising, ruled by Leon.
The army of Basileus Raphail of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Count Gregorios of Neapolis, was victorious in the battle of Chalkidike against the armies of Paulician Uprising.
Leon of Paulician Uprising lost the war against Basileus Raphail of the Byzantine Empire.
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Greek realm of Dyrrachion, ruled by Strategitissa Eustathia 'the Drunkard'.
Basileus Raphail of the Byzantine Empire tried but failed to imprison Strategitissa Eustathia of Dyrrachion 'the Drunkard', causing her to come out in open rebellion.
The army of Basileus Raphail of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Count Gregorios of Neapolis, was victorious in the battle of Strymon against the armies of Dyrrachion.
The army of Basileus Raphail of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Count Gregorios of Neapolis, was victorious in the battle of Lychnidos against the armies of Dyrrachion.
Strategitissa Eustathia of Dyrrachion 'the Drunkard' lost the war against Basileus Raphail of the Byzantine Empire.
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Georgian realm of Abkhazia, ruled by Strategos Teodos II.
Basileus Raphail of the Byzantine Empire tried but failed to imprison Strategos Teodos II of Abkhazia, causing him to come out in open rebellion.

- 808 -
The army of Basileus Raphail of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Narses, was victorious in the battle of Kasogia against the armies of Abkhazia.

- 809 -
Strategos Teodos II of Abkhazia lost the war against Basileus Raphail of the Byzantine Empire.
Basileus Raphail of the Byzantine Empire, through deeds and character, came to be known as Basileus Raphail 'the Vengeful'.
Basileus Raphail of the Byzantine Empire went to war against Emir Khudayar of the Subaid Emirate.
The army of Basileus Raphail of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Count Täbär of Famagusta, was victorious in the battle of Aintab against the armies of the Subaid Emirate.

- 810 -
Basileus Raphail of the Byzantine Empire married Duchess Eldesendis, daughter of Duke Pharamond of Flanders.
Ecumenical Patriarch Theodotos, leader of all Orthodox faithful, died a natural death on 17 August, 810.
The army of Basileus Raphail of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Captain Frirek of Varangian Guard, was victorious in the battle of Ikonion against the armies of Armenia.

- 811 -
The army of Basileus Raphail of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Captain Frirek of Varangian Guard, was victorious in the battle of Teluch against the armies of Armenia.
Basileus Raphail of the Byzantine Empire 'the Vengeful' won the war against Emir Khudayar of the Subaid Emirate.
Raphail Isauros usurped the Duchy of Cilicia from Khudayar Subaid.
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Greek realm of Athens, ruled by Strategos Eugenios 'the Handsome'.
Basileus Raphail of the Byzantine Empire 'the Vengeful' tried but failed to imprison Strategos Eugenios of Athens 'the Handsome', causing him to come out in open rebellion.
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Greek realm of Bogomilist Uprising, ruled by Damianos.
The Bogomilist heresy spread its woeful presence in the county of Épieros.
The army of Basileus Raphail of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Captain Frirek of Varangian Guard, was victorious in the battle of Doliche against the armies of Bogomilist Uprising.
Damianos of Bogomilist Uprising lost the war against Basileus Raphail of the Byzantine Empire 'the Vengeful'.

- 812 -
The army of Basileus Raphail of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Captain Frirek of Varangian Guard, was victorious in the battle of Árta against the armies of Athens.
The army of Basileus Raphail of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Captain Frirek of Varangian Guard, was victorious in the battle of Atheniai against the armies of Athens.
Strategos Eugenios of Athens 'the Handsome' lost the war against Basileus Raphail of the Byzantine Empire 'the Vengeful'.

- 813 -
Basileus Raphail of the Byzantine Empire died from a bad case of the Flu on 9 April, 813. His sister, Agne, succeeded to the throne of the Empire with a grand ceremony in Constantinople.

Basilissa Agne of the Byzantine Empire married Mayor Theodoulos.

- 814 -
Basilissa Agne of the Byzantine Empire, through deeds and character, came to be known as Basilissa Agne 'the Unfaithful'.
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Italian realm of the The Papacy, ruled by Pope Pascal 'the Holy'.
The army of Basilissa Agne of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Captain Frirek of Varangian Guard, was victorious in the battle of Salerno against the armies of the The Papacy.

- 815 -
Nikephoros, the firstborn son, was born to Basilissa Agne of the Byzantine Empire.
Pope Pascal 'the Holy' lost the war against Basilissa Agne of the Byzantine Empire 'the Unfaithful'.
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Italian realm of Sardinia, ruled by Strategos Luca.
Basilissa Agne of the Byzantine Empire 'the Unfaithful' tried but failed to imprison Strategos Luca of Sardinia, causing him to come out in open rebellion.
The army of Basilissa Agne of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Captain Frirek of Varangian Guard, was victorious in the battle of Karalis against the armies of Sardinia.
The Bogomilist heresy spread its woeful presence in the county of Famagusta.
Strategos Luca of Sardinia lost the war against Basilissa Agne of the Byzantine Empire 'the Unfaithful'.

- 816 -
Basilissa Agne of the Byzantine Empire went to war against Aghlab of Abbasid Revolt.
The army of Basilissa Agne of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Christophoros, was victorious in the battle of Nikopolis against the armies of Nikopolisian Peasant Revolt.

- 817 -
In Kakheti, the people celebrated the benevolent rule of Basilissa Agne.

- 818 -
The army of Basilissa Agne of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Liuvericho of Mallorca, was victorious in the battle of Trapezous against the armies of Dizeng's Host.
Basilissa Agne of the Byzantine Empire went to war against Grimoald of Lombard Revolt.
The army of Basilissa Agne of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Mayor Adarnase of Kutaisi, was victorious in the battle of Imeretia against the armies of Dizeng's Host.

- 819 -
Basilissa Agne of the Byzantine Empire 'the Unfaithful' won the war against Grimoald of Lombard Revolt 'the Rash'.
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Greek realm of Amalfi, ruled by Doge Leon II.
Basilissa Agne of the Byzantine Empire 'the Unfaithful' tried but failed to imprison Doge Leon II of Amalfi, causing him to come out in open rebellion.
The army of Basilissa Agne of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Liuvericho of Mallorca, was victorious in the battle of Amalfi against the armies of Amalfi.
Doge Leon II of Amalfi lost the war against Basilissa Agne of the Byzantine Empire 'the Unfaithful'.

- 820 -
A dragon was seen in the county of Thessalonike.

- 821 -
Basilissa Agne of the Byzantine Empire went to war against Sheikh Andronikos of Melitene.
Basilissa Agne of the Byzantine Empire 'the Unfaithful' won the war against Sheikh Andronikos of Melitene.
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Greek realm of Bogomilist Uprising, ruled by Philippos.
The army of Basilissa Agne of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Liuvericho of Mallorca, was victorious in the battle of Kasogia against the armies of Bukhal.

- 822 -
The army of Basilissa Agne of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Liuvericho of Mallorca, was victorious in the battle of Famagusta against the armies of Bogomilist Uprising.
Philippos of Bogomilist Uprising lost the war against Basilissa Agne of the Byzantine Empire 'the Unfaithful'.

- 823 -
Basilissa Agne of the Byzantine Empire went to war against Sultan Aarif of the Umayyad Sultanate.

- 824 -
Basilissa Agne of the Byzantine Empire 'the Unfaithful' won the war against Sultan Aarif of the Umayyad Sultanate.

- 825 -
Agne Isauros usurped the Kingdom of Bulgaria from Rugila Ukil.
Empress Dowager Theognosia, the mother of Basilissa Agne of the Byzantine Empire, died of Cancer on 11 August, 825.

- 826 -
The army of Basilissa Agne of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Count Ignatios of Neapolis, was victorious in the battle of Nikomedeia against the armies of Bugha's Host.
The army of Basilissa Agne of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Count Ignatios of Neapolis, was victorious in the battle of Thrake against the armies of Mänärid.

- 827 -
Villagers saw blood raining from the sky in the county of Rome.

- 828 -
Agne Isauros created the title of Duchy of Barcelona, confirming her growing power with much ceremony and celebration.

- 829 -
The army of Basilissa Agne of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Count Ignatios of Neapolis, was victorious in the battle of Thrake against the armies of Muhallabid Revolt.

- 830 -
The army of Basilissa Agne of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Narses, was victorious in the battle of Doliche against the armies of Khatir's Host.
Basilissa Agne of the Byzantine Empire went to war against Sultan Ghalib of the Muhallabid Sultanate.

- 831 -
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Khazar realm of Khazarian Liberation Revolt, ruled by Yilig.
The army of Basilissa Agne of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Sebastianos of Karvuna, was victorious in the battle of Korchev against the armies of Khazarian Liberation Revolt.
Yilig of Khazarian Liberation Revolt lost the war against Basilissa Agne of the Byzantine Empire 'the Unfaithful'.
The armies of the Byzantine Empire, led by Count Ignatios of Neapolis, captured Alexandria.
Basilissa Agne of the Byzantine Empire died in childbirth on 24 November, 831. Her son, Basil, succeeded to the throne of the Empire with a grand ceremony in Constantinople.

A river flooded parts of Tmutarakan in the spring.

- 832 -
The army of Basileus Basil of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Oddr, was victorious in the battle of Uppland against the armies of Sigurdr's Host.
Basileus Basil of the Byzantine Empire won the war against Sultan Ghalib of the Muhallabid Sultanate.
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Khazar realm of Khazarian Liberation Revolt, ruled by Tuzniq.
The army of Basileus Basil of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by High Chief Khatir of Cyprus, was victorious in the battle of Doliche against the armies of Bihor's Host.

- 833 -
The army of Basileus Basil of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Gerasimos of Cherson, was victorious in the battle of Cherson against the armies of Khazarian Liberation Revolt.
Tuzniq of Khazarian Liberation Revolt lost the war against Basileus Basil of the Byzantine Empire.
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Greek realm of Byzantine Revolt, ruled by Chrysogonos.
The army of Basileus Basil of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Mayor Theodosios of Deuteron, was victorious in the battle of Chalkidike against the armies of Byzantine Revolt.
Basileus Basil of the Byzantine Empire died under suspicious circumstances on 4 December, 833. His half-brother, Nikephoros, succeeded to the throne of the Empire with a grand ceremony in Serdica.

Strategos Sebastianos of Karvuna was imprisoned in a dungeon in Constantinople by Basileus Nikephoros II of the Byzantine Empire.

- 834 -
Basileus Nikephoros II of the Byzantine Empire was victorious in the battle of Constantinople against the army of Tarmaç's Host, commanded by Tarmaç of Tarmaç's Host.
The army of Basileus Nikephoros II of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Mayor Theodosios of Deuteron, was victorious in the battle of Thrake against the armies of Tarmaç's Host.
Count Sebastianos 'the Quarreller', the father of Basileus Nikephoros II of the Byzantine Empire, died in the dungeons of Basileus Nikephoros II of the Byzantine Empire on 4 March, 834.
The army of Basileus Nikephoros II of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Captain Gabriel of Varangian Guard, was victorious in the battle of Adrianopolis against the armies of Tarmaç's Host.

- 835 -
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Italian realm of the The Papacy, ruled by Pope Gregorius V.
Nikephoros Isauros usurped the Duchy of Alexandria from Tadros Quadirid.

- 836 -
Owner lost Rome to the forces of Pope Gregorius V.

- 837 -
The army of Basileus Nikephoros II of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Mayor Theodosios of Deuteron, was victorious in the battle of Bari against the armies of the The Papacy.
The army of Basileus Nikephoros II of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Mayor Theodosios of Deuteron, was victorious in the battle of Rome against the armies of the The Papacy.
The armies of the Byzantine Empire, led by Mayor Theodosios of Deuteron, captured Rome.
The army of Basileus Nikephoros II of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Mayor Theodosios of Deuteron, was victorious in the battle of Orbetello against the armies of the The Papacy.
Pope Gregorius V lost the war against Basileus Nikephoros II of the Byzantine Empire.

- 838 -
Philippos of Byzantine Revolt lost the war against Basileus Nikephoros II of the Byzantine Empire.

- 839 -
Heracleus, the firstborn son, was born to Basileus Nikephoros II of the Byzantine Empire.

- 840 -
People in Amisos claimed to have seen two suns at the same time.

- 841 -
In Constantinople, the people celebrated the benevolent rule of Basileus Nikephoros II.

- 842 -
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Greek realm of Wallachia, ruled by Strategos Pankratios 'the Tenacious'.
Basileus Nikephoros II of the Byzantine Empire tried but failed to imprison Strategos Pankratios of Wallachia 'the Tenacious', causing him to come out in open rebellion.
The army of Basileus Nikephoros II of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Captain Gabriel of Varangian Guard, was victorious in the battle of Turnu against the armies of Wallachia.
Strategos Pankratios of Wallachia 'the Tenacious' lost the war against Basileus Nikephoros II of the Byzantine Empire.
Nikephoros Isauros usurped the Duchy of Wallachia from Pankratios of Hydrunton.

- 843 -
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Greek realm of Peresechen, ruled by Chief Kaisarios.
Basileus Nikephoros II of the Byzantine Empire tried but failed to imprison Chief Kaisarios of Peresechen, causing him to come out in open rebellion.
The army of Basileus Nikephoros II of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Captain Gabriel of Varangian Guard, was victorious in the battle of Peresechen against the armies of Peresechen.
Chief Kaisarios of Peresechen lost the war against Basileus Nikephoros II of the Byzantine Empire.
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Greek realm of Adrianopolis, ruled by Doux Philippos 'the Devil'.
Basileus Nikephoros II of the Byzantine Empire tried but failed to imprison Doux Philippos of Adrianopolis 'the Devil', causing him to come out in open rebellion.
The army of Basileus Nikephoros II of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Captain Gabriel of Varangian Guard, was victorious in the battle of Adrianopolis against the armies of Adrianopolis.
The army of Basileus Nikephoros II of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Captain Gabriel of Varangian Guard, was victorious in the battle of Philippopolis against the armies of Adrianopolis.

- 844 -
Doux Kaisarios of Adrianopolis lost the war against Basileus Nikephoros II of the Byzantine Empire.
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Greek realm of Athens, ruled by Doux Kallistos 'the Cruel'.
Basileus Nikephoros II of the Byzantine Empire tried but failed to imprison Doux Kallistos of Athens 'the Cruel', causing him to come out in open rebellion.
The army of Basileus Nikephoros II of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Captain Gabriel of Varangian Guard, was victorious in the battle of Thessalia against the armies of Athens.
The army of Basileus Nikephoros II of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Captain Gabriel of Varangian Guard, was victorious in the battle of Demetrias against the armies of Athens.
The army of Basileus Nikephoros II of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Captain Gabriel of Varangian Guard, was victorious in the battle of Hellas against the armies of Athens.

- 845 -
Duchess Natia of Coloneia was imprisoned in a dungeon in Constantinople by Basileus Nikephoros II of the Byzantine Empire.
Doux Kallistos of Athens 'the Cruel' lost the war against Basileus Nikephoros II of the Byzantine Empire.

- 846 -
The army of Basileus Nikephoros II of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Gerasimos II of Paphlagonia, was victorious in the battle of Lazike against the armies of Tao.

- 847 -
Villagers saw blood raining from the sky in the county of Hellas.

- 848 -
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Greek realm of Nikaea, ruled by Doux Damianos 'the Seducer'.
Basileus Nikephoros II of the Byzantine Empire tried but failed to imprison Doux Damianos of Nikaea 'the Seducer', causing him to come out in open rebellion.
The army of Basileus Nikephoros II of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Gerasimos II of Paphlagonia, was victorious in the battle of Nikomedeia against the armies of Nikaea.
The army of Basileus Nikephoros II of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Gerasimos II of Paphlagonia, was victorious in the battle of Prusa against the armies of Nikaea.
The army of Basileus Nikephoros II of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Gerasimos II of Paphlagonia, was victorious in the battle of Nikomedeia against the armies of Nikaea.

- 849 -
The army of Basileus Nikephoros II of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Gerasimos II of Paphlagonia, was victorious in the battle of Thrake against the armies of Nikaea.
Doux Damianos of Nikaea 'the Seducer' lost the war against Basileus Nikephoros II of the Byzantine Empire.

- 850 -
Ecumenical Patriarch Gregorios II, leader of all Orthodox faithful, died of severe stress on 8 July, 850.
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Egyptian realm of Gizehian Peasant Revolt, ruled by Khalil.

- 851 -
Basileus Nikephoros II of the Byzantine Empire, through deeds and character, came to be known as Basileus Nikephoros II 'the Just'.
The army of Basileus Nikephoros II of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Gerasimos II of Paphlagonia, was victorious in the battle of Gizeh against the armies of Gizehian Peasant Revolt.
Khalil of Gizehian Peasant Revolt lost the war against Basileus Nikephoros II of the Byzantine Empire 'the Just'.

- 852 -
A river flooded parts of Nikomedeia in the spring.

- 853 -
The army of Basileus Nikephoros II of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Gerasimos II of Paphlagonia, was victorious in the battle of Galaz against the armies of Arelis's Host.
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Greek realm of Bogomilist Uprising, ruled by Nikolaos.

- 854 -
The army of Basileus Nikephoros II of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Gerasimos II of Paphlagonia, was victorious in the battle of Arsa against the armies of Bogomilist Uprising.
Nikolaos of Bogomilist Uprising lost the war against Basileus Nikephoros II of the Byzantine Empire 'the Just'.
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Greek realm of Dyrrachion, ruled by Doux Gabriel.
Basileus Nikephoros II of the Byzantine Empire 'the Just' tried but failed to imprison Doux Gabriel of Dyrrachion, causing him to come out in open rebellion.

- 855 -
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Greek realm of Byzantine Revolt, ruled by Herakleios 'the Fat'.
Doux Gabriel of Dyrrachion lost the war against Basileus Nikephoros II of the Byzantine Empire 'the Just'.
Nikephoros Isauros usurped the Duchy of Paphlagonia from Gerasimos Souanites.
The army of Basileus Nikephoros II of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Andronikos of Sicily, was victorious in the battle of Tarsos against the armies of Byzantine Revolt.

- 856 -
Basileus Nikephoros II of the Byzantine Empire died of depression on 24 November, 856. His son, Heracleus, succeeded to the throne of the Empire with a grand ceremony in Barcelona.

Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire married Melissa, daughter of Strategos Aurelio of Sardinia.
Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire was victorious in the battle of Tarsos against the army of Byzantine Revolt, commanded by Herakleios of Byzantine Revolt.

- 857 -
Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire was victorious in the battle of Kaisereia against the army of Byzantine Revolt, commanded by Herakleios of Byzantine Revolt.
The army of Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Uruzma ve Arlon, was victorious in the battle of Kyzikos against the armies of Arelis's Host.
Herakleios of Byzantine Revolt 'the Fat' lost the war against Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire.

- 858 -
Adrianos Isauros married Strategitissa Theochariste, daughter of Strategos Anthemios of Alexandria.

- 859 -
Duchess Natia of Coloneia was imprisoned in a dungeon in Constantinople by Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire.
Duchess Natia of Coloneia was imprisoned in a dungeon in Constantinople by Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire.

- 860 -
The army of Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Mayor Adrianos of Galata, was victorious in the battle of Thrake against the armies of Muhallabid Revolt.
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Greek realm of Thessalonika, ruled by Strategos Theodotos 'the Mutilator'.
Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire tried but failed to imprison Strategos Theodotos of Thessalonika 'the Mutilator', causing him to come out in open rebellion.

- 861 -
The army of Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Mayor Adrianos of Galata, was victorious in the battle of Chalkidike against the armies of Thessalonika.
The army of Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Mayor Adrianos of Galata, was victorious in the battle of Thessalonike against the armies of Thessalonika.
The army of Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Mayor Adrianos of Galata, was victorious in the battle of Thessalia against the armies of Thessalonika.
The army of Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Mayor Adrianos of Galata, was victorious in the battle of Thessalonike against the armies of Thessalonika.
Strategos Theodotos of Thessalonika 'the Mutilator' lost the war against Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire.

- 862 -
The army of Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Baron Eugenios of Manresa, was victorious in the battle of Thrake against the armies of Tabghaçid.
Empress Dowager Natia 'the Bold', the mother of Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire, died in the dungeons of Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire on 3 May, 862.
Alexeia, the firstborn daughter, was born to Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire.
Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire, through deeds and character, came to be known as Basileus Heracleus 'the Butcher'.
Heracleus Isauros created the title of Duchy of Adrianopolis, confirming his growing power with much ceremony and celebration.

- 863 -
The army of Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Andronikos of Sicily, was victorious in the battle of Thrake against the armies of the Jashnakirid Clan.
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Greek realm of Nikaea, ruled by Strategos Germanos.
Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire 'the Butcher' tried but failed to imprison Strategos Germanos of Nikaea, causing him to come out in open rebellion.
The army of Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Eustratios, was victorious in the battle of Al Alamayn against the armies of Muhallabid Revolt.
The army of Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Isidoros of Moldau, was victorious in the battle of Belgorod against the armies of the Jashnakirid Clan.
The army of Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Andronikos of Sicily, was victorious in the battle of Dorylaion against the armies of Nikaea.
Kallistos, the firstborn son, was born to Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire.
The army of Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Andronikos of Sicily, was victorious in the battle of Dorylaion against the armies of Nikaea.

- 864 -
Heracleus Isauros usurped the Duchy of Cherson from Savtilek Alpid.
The army of Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Andronikos of Sicily, was victorious in the battle of Nikomedeia against the armies of Nikomedeian Peasant Revolt.
The army of Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Andronikos of Sicily, was victorious in the battle of Nikaea against the armies of Nikaea.

- 865 -
The army of Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Andronikos of Sicily, was victorious in the battle of Nikaea against the armies of Nikaea.
Strategos Germanos of Nikaea lost the war against Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire 'the Butcher'.

- 866 -
Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire went to war against High Chief Yeçtirek of Moesia.

- 867 -
The army of Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Captain Hrolfr of Varangian Guard, was victorious in the battle of Nikopolis against the armies of Vidin.
The army of Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Chief Buzer of Bosphoros, was defeated in the battle of Korchev against the armies of Moesia.
The army of Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Dorotheos, was victorious in the battle of Dorostotum against the armies of Tabghaçid.

- 868 -
The army of Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Captain Hrolfr of Varangian Guard, was victorious in the battle of Tyrnovo against the armies of Vidin.
Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire 'the Butcher' won the war against High Chief Yeçtirek of Moesia 'the Dragon'.

- 869 -
A star fell from the sky in Dyrrachion, killing three cows.

- 870 -
The army of Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Count Artemio of Gallura, was victorious in the battle of Karalis against the armies of Sviþjod.
Heracleus Isauros created the title of Duchy of Moesia, confirming his growing power with much ceremony and celebration.
The army of Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Captain Hrolfr of Varangian Guard, was victorious in the battle of Constantia against the armies of Samsam's Host.

- 871 -
The army of Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Captain Hrolfr of Varangian Guard, was victorious in the battle of Lazike against the armies of Meliksah's Host.

- 872 -
The army of Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Captain Hrolfr of Varangian Guard, was victorious in the battle of Diadora against the armies of Dag's Host.

- 873 -
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Khazar realm of Khazarian Liberation Revolt, ruled by Mänäs.
The army of Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Captain Hrolfr of Varangian Guard, was victorious in the battle of Tmutarakan against the armies of Khazarian Liberation Revolt.
Mänäs of Khazarian Liberation Revolt lost the war against Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire 'the Butcher'.

- 874 -
Basileus Heracleus held a grand tournament, inviting all the great lords and knights of the realm.

- 875 -
The army of Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Ioustinianos of Dalmatia, was victorious in the battle of Severin against the armies of Szymon's Host.

- 876 -
Strange and wonderful serpents were seen in Aswan.

- 877 -
The army of Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Ioustinianos of Dalmatia, was victorious in the battle of Thrake against the armies of Ilik's Host.

- 878 -
Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire went to war against Doge Alarico of Venice.

- 879 -
Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire 'the Butcher' won the war against Doge Alarico of Venice.
Heracleus Isauros usurped the Duchy of Venice from Alarico Galbaio.

- 880 -
Several people in Constantinople spoke of seeing strange shapes dancing on the moon.

- 881 -
Basilissa Melissa, the wife of Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire, died of Camp Fever on 6 May, 881.
Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire married Ansa, daughter of Baron Godepert of Montpellier.
Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire went to war against High Chief Dmitar of Duklja.
The army of Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Ioannes of Achaia, was victorious in the battle of Zeta against the armies of Duklja.
The army of Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Ioannes of Achaia, was victorious in the battle of Dubrovnik against the armies of Duklja.

- 882 -
The army of Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Ioannes of Achaia, was victorious in the battle of Dubrovnik against the armies of Duklja.
Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire 'the Butcher' won the war against High Chief Dmitar of Duklja.
Heracleus Isauros usurped the County of Raugia from Szymon Abonid.
The army of Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Ioannes of Achaia, was victorious in the battle of Thrake against the armies of Çat'n's Host.

- 883 -
The Monothelite heresy spread its woeful presence in the county of Karalis.
The army of Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Ioannes of Achaia, was victorious in the battle of Zachlumia against the armies of Þorolfr's Host.

- 884 -
Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire went to war against King Taino III of Lombardy.

- 885 -
The army of Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Ioannes of Achaia, was victorious in the battle of Capua against the armies of Lombardy.
Prince Romanos of the Byzantine Empire married Ermengardis, daughter of Count Mauregato of Menorca.
The army of Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Ioannes of Achaia, was victorious in the battle of Rome against the armies of Lombardy.

- 886 -
The army of Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Ioannes of Achaia, was victorious in the battle of Rome against the armies of Lombardy.
Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire 'the Butcher' won the war against King Hilmagis of Lombardy.
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Italian realm of the The Papacy, ruled by Pope Eugenius III.
The army of Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Mayor Niphon of Kalavryta, was victorious in the battle of Achaia against the armies of Duklja.
The army of Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Ioannes of Achaia, was victorious in the battle of Orvieto against the armies of the The Papacy.
Pope Eugenius III lost the war against Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire 'the Butcher'.
The Paulician heresy spread its woeful presence in the county of Rosello.

- 887 -
The army of Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Ioannes of Achaia, was victorious in the battle of Theodosia against the armies of Ashina.
Heracleus Isauros created the title of Duchy of Neapolis, confirming his growing power with much ceremony and celebration.
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Visigothic realm of Paulician Uprising, ruled by Nunno.

- 888 -
The army of Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Ioannes of Achaia, was victorious in the battle of Rosello against the armies of Paulician Uprising.
Nunno of Paulician Uprising lost the war against Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire 'the Butcher'.
The army of Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Metropolitan Clemente of Ogliastra, was victorious in the battle of Karalis against the armies of Denmark.
Basileus Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire died of severe stress on 17 June, 888. His Georgian son Romanos succeeded to the throne of the Empire as Emperor Romanos.

The army of Emperor Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Ioannes of Achaia, was victorious in the battle of Abkhazia against the armies of Bukhal.

- 889 -
Basil, the firstborn son, was born to Emperor Romanos of the Byzantine Empire.
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Italian realm of the The Papacy, ruled by Pope Eugenius III 'the Holy'.
The Monothelite heresy spread its woeful presence in the county of Trapani.
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Greek realm of Monothelite Uprising, ruled by Pantoleon.

- 890 -
The army of Emperor Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Ioannes of Achaia, was victorious in the battle of Rome against the armies of the The Papacy.
The army of Emperor Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Ioannes of Achaia, was victorious in the battle of Orbetello against the armies of the The Papacy.
Pope Eugenius III 'the Holy' lost the war against Emperor Romanos of the Byzantine Empire.
The army of Emperor Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Mayor Leontios of Nikopolis, was victorious in the battle of Olvia against the armies of Barid's Host.
The army of Emperor Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Ioannes of Achaia, was victorious in the battle of Trapani against the armies of Monothelite Uprising.
Pantoleon of Monothelite Uprising lost the war against Emperor Romanos of the Byzantine Empire.

- 891 -
Ecumenical Patriarch Metrophanes II, leader of all Orthodox faithful, died bedridden and infirm on 20 January, 891.
Emperor Romanos of the Byzantine Empire went to war against Khagan Itakh of Ashina.
Emperor Romanos of the Byzantine Empire won the war against Khagan Itakh of Ashina 'the Wolf'.

- 892 -
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Greek realm of Byzantine Revolt, ruled by Germanos 'the Evil'.
The army of Emperor Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Ioannes of Achaia, was victorious in the battle of Thrake against the armies of Byzantine Revolt.
The army of Emperor Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Bishop Euphemios of Chariopolis, was victorious in the battle of Mesembria against the armies of Barjik's Host.
The army of Emperor Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Ioannes of Achaia, was victorious in the battle of Kaliopolis against the armies of Byzantine Revolt.
Romanos Isauros usurped the Duchy of Crimea from Itakh Täbärid.
The army of Emperor Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Ioannes of Achaia, was victorious in the battle of Dorylaion against the armies of Byzantine Revolt.

- 893 -
Emperor Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, through deeds and character, came to be known as Emperor Romanos 'the Holy'.
Germanos of Byzantine Revolt 'the Evil' lost the war against Emperor Romanos of the Byzantine Empire 'the Holy'.
The army of Emperor Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Ioannes of Achaia, was victorious in the battle of Capua against the armies of Gandalfr's Host.

- 894 -
The army of Emperor Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Ioannes of Achaia, was victorious in the battle of Zachlumia against the armies of Holmger's Host.
The army of Emperor Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Ioannes of Achaia, was victorious in the battle of Guria against the armies of Sandilkh's Host.

- 895 -
A river flooded parts of Euboia in the spring.

- 896 -
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Greek realm of Tarsos, ruled by Countess Alexeia.
Emperor Romanos of the Byzantine Empire 'the Holy' tried but failed to imprison Countess Alexeia of Tarsos, causing her to come out in open rebellion.

- 897 -
Countess Alexeia of Tarsos lost the war against Emperor Romanos of the Byzantine Empire 'the Holy'.
The Paulician heresy spread its woeful presence in the county of Cephalonia.
Emperor Romanos of the Byzantine Empire went to war against Caliph Ali II.

- 898 -
The army of Emperor Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Ioannes of Achaia, was victorious in the battle of Jerusalem against the armies of the Abbasid Empire.
Emperor Romanos of the Byzantine Empire adopted new customs to embrace Greek culture, no longer considering himself Georgian.
The army of Emperor Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Ioannes of Achaia, was victorious in the battle of Acre against the armies of Abbasid Revolt.
The armies of the Byzantine Empire, led by Strategos Eberulf of Moesia, captured Jerusalem.
Emperor Romanos of the Byzantine Empire 'the Holy' won the war against Caliph Ali II 'the Bold'.

- 899 -
Romanos Isauros created the title of Duchy of Temes, confirming his growing power with much ceremony and celebration.
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Khazar realm of Khazarian Liberation Revolt, ruled by Bulçan.
The army of Emperor Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Ioannes of Achaia, was victorious in the battle of Lower Don against the armies of Khazarian Liberation Revolt.
Bulçan of Khazarian Liberation Revolt lost the war against Emperor Romanos of the Byzantine Empire 'the Holy'.

- 900 -
The army of Emperor Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Ioannes of Achaia, was victorious in the battle of Severin against the armies of Hroðulfr's Host.
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Greek realm of Tyanan Peasant Revolt, ruled by Gregoras.

- 901 -
The army of Emperor Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Theophylaktos of Nikaea, was victorious in the battle of Tyana against the armies of Tyanan Peasant Revolt.
Gregoras of Tyanan Peasant Revolt lost the war against Emperor Romanos of the Byzantine Empire 'the Holy'.

- 902 -
Ecumenical Patriarch Pavlos IV, leader of all Orthodox faithful, died under suspicious circumstances on 2 February, 902.
King Odoaker of Lombardy supported King Odoaker of Lombardy in war against his enemies.
The army of Basileus Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Count Konstantine of Acre, was victorious in the battle of Rascia against the armies of Duklja.
Ermengardis Kindasuinthiana was imprisoned in a dungeon in Constantinople by Basileus Romanos of the Byzantine Empire.
Ermengardis, the wife of Basileus Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, was beheaded on the order of Basileus Romanos of the Byzantine Empire on 1 October, 902.
Basileus Romanos of the Byzantine Empire married Countess Cuthburg, daughter of Earl Æthelwulf of Suffolk.
The army of Basileus Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Philippos III of Lukania, was victorious in the battle of Veglia against the armies of Pannonia.
Romanos Isauros created the title of Kingdom of Sicily, confirming his growing power with much ceremony and celebration.

- 903 -
The army of Basileus Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Philippos III of Lukania, was victorious in the battle of Zagreb against the armies of Pannonia.
Romanos Isauros created the title of Duchy of Coloneia, confirming his growing power with much ceremony and celebration.
The army of Basileus Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Count Konstantine of Acre, was victorious in the battle of Thrake against the armies of Ilik's Host.

- 904 -
The army of Basileus Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Count Konstantine of Acre, was victorious in the battle of Spalathos against the armies of Pomerania.
The army of Basileus Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Count Konstantine of Acre, was victorious in the battle of Vas against the armies of Pannonia.
The army of Basileus Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Count Konstantine of Acre, was victorious in the battle of Steiermark against the armies of Pannonia.
The army of Basileus Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Konstantinos Krinites, was victorious in the battle of Trapezous against the armies of Magnesi.

- 905 -
The army of Basileus Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Count Konstantine of Acre, was victorious in the battle of Lukania against the armies of Sumarliði's Host.
Owner lost Venezia to the forces of King Bedrich of Pomerania.
The army of Basileus Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Philippos of Abkhazia, was victorious in the battle of Abkhazia against the armies of Bukhal.

- 906 -
Ecumenical Patriarch Basileios, leader of all Orthodox faithful, died of poor health on 25 August, 906.

- 907 -
The army of Basileus Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Count Konstantine of Acre, was victorious in the battle of Lazike against the armies of Bashtwa's Host.

- 908 -
The army of Basileus Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Count Konstantine of Acre, was victorious in the battle of Oleshye against the armies of Pochepid.

- 909 -
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Greek realm of Nikomedeia, ruled by Count Serapion.
Basileus Romanos of the Byzantine Empire 'the Holy' tried but failed to imprison Count Serapion of Nikomedeia, causing him to come out in open rebellion.
The army of Basileus Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Count Konstantine of Acre, was victorious in the battle of Prusa against the armies of Nikomedeia.
The army of Basileus Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Count Iordanes of Panarmos, was victorious in the battle of Lukania against the armies of Sturla's Host.
Count Serapion of Nikomedeia lost the war against Basileus Romanos of the Byzantine Empire 'the Holy'.
Romanos Isauros created the title of Duchy of Jerusalem, confirming his growing power with much ceremony and celebration.

- 910 -
The army of Basileus Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Konstantine of Jerusalem, was victorious in the battle of Trapezous against the armies of Barsbek's Host.

- 911 -
The army of Basileus Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Count Iordanes of Panarmos, was defeated in the battle of Kroton against the armies of Sumarliði's Host.
The army of Basileus Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Konstantine of Jerusalem, was victorious in the battle of Kroton against the armies of Sumarliði's Host.
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Khazar realm of Tengri Uprising, ruled by Yavantey.

- 912 -
Romanos Isauros created the title of Duchy of Longobardia, confirming his growing power with much ceremony and celebration.
The army of Basileus Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Konstantine of Jerusalem, was victorious in the battle of Oleshye against the armies of Tengri Uprising.
Yavantey of Tengri Uprising lost the war against Basileus Romanos of the Byzantine Empire 'the Holy'.

- 913 -
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Greek realm of Byzantine Revolt, ruled by Kaisarios.
The armies of the Byzantine Empire, led by Strategos Konstantine of Jerusalem, captured Venezia.
The army of Basileus Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Bosporios of Moesia, was victorious in the battle of Chalkidike against the armies of Holmger's Host.

- 914 -
The army of Basileus Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Bosporios of Moesia, was victorious in the battle of Rascia against the armies of Byzantine Revolt.
Romanos Isauros usurped the Duchy of Dioclea from Dmitar Domagojevic.
The army of Basileus Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Bosporios of Moesia, was victorious in the battle of Naissos against the armies of Holmger's Host.
The army of Basileus Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Konstantine of Jerusalem, was victorious in the battle of Venezia against the armies of Byzantine Revolt.
The army of Basileus Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Bosporios of Moesia, was victorious in the battle of Mesembria against the armies of Byzantine Revolt.
Ecumenical Patriarch Alexios II announced the formal annulment of Basileus Romanoss marriage with Countess Cuthburg of Suffolk.
Basileus Romanos of the Byzantine Empire married Rhonwen.

- 915 -
Kaisarios of Byzantine Revolt lost the war against Basileus Romanos of the Byzantine Empire 'the Holy'.

- 916 -
The army of Basileus Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Konstantine of Jerusalem, was victorious in the battle of Adana against the armies of Barsbek's Host.

- 917 -
The earth shook for three days in Lesbos, killing two hundred peasants and a priest.

- 918 -
Romanos Isauros created the title of Duchy of Bononia, confirming his growing power with much ceremony and celebration.
King Odoaker of Lombardy supported King Odoaker of Lombardy in war against his enemies.
The army of Basileus Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Konstantine of Jerusalem, was victorious in the battle of Lukania against the armies of Sumarliði's Host.

- 919 -
The army of Basileus Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Konstantine of Jerusalem, was victorious in the battle of Achaia against the armies of Bashtwa's Host.
The army of Basileus Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Konstantine of Jerusalem, was victorious in the battle of Lazike against the armies of Yabghu's Host.
Basileus Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, through deeds and character, came to be known as Basileus Romanos 'the Saint'.
The army of Basileus Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Zenon Kameniatis, was victorious in the battle of Lychnidos against the armies of Suni's Host.

- 920 -
King Waifar II of Burgundy supported King Waifar II of Burgundy in war against his enemies.

- 921 -
The army of Basileus Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Mayor Damianos of Chrysopolis, was victorious in the battle of Aargau against the armies of Provence.
The army of Basileus Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Mayor Damianos of Chrysopolis, was victorious in the battle of Breda against the armies of Burgundian Revolt.
The army of Basileus Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Mayor Damianos of Chrysopolis, was victorious in the battle of Jülich against the armies of Burgundian Revolt.
The army of Basileus Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Mayor Damianos of Chrysopolis, was victorious in the battle of Sticht against the armies of Burgundian Revolt.

- 922 -
The army of Basileus Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Chrysogonos of Epirus, was victorious in the battle of Kaliopolis against the armies of Kisa's Host.
The army of Basileus Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Count Paschalis of Galaz, was victorious in the battle of Turnu against the armies of Kisa's Host.
The army of Basileus Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Mayor Damianos of Chrysopolis, was victorious in the battle of Sticht against the armies of Burgundian Revolt.

- 923 -
Tens of thousands of crows birds invaded Doliche just before the harvest, causing much damage to the farmers's fields.

- 924 -
The army of Basileus Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Vsevolod, was victorious in the battle of Constantia against the armies of Kisa's Host.

- 925 -
A strange plague killed thousands of wild rabbits in the county of Achaia.

- 926 -
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Greek realm of Sardinia, ruled by Strategos Staurakios 'the Accursed'.
Basileus Romanos of the Byzantine Empire 'the Saint' tried but failed to imprison Strategos Staurakios of Sardinia 'the Accursed', causing him to come out in open rebellion.
Rhonwen was imprisoned in a dungeon in Constantinople by Basileus Romanos of the Byzantine Empire.
Rhonwen 'the Unfaithful', the wife of Basileus Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, was hanged on the order of Basileus Romanos of the Byzantine Empire on 15 November, 926.
Basileus Romanos of the Byzantine Empire married Countess Cunigunda, daughter of Count Bernard of Parma.

- 927 -
The army of Basileus Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Chrysogonos of Epirus, was victorious in the battle of Abydos against the armies of Bulan's Host.
The army of Basileus Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Chrysogonos of Epirus, was victorious in the battle of Ogliastra against the armies of Sardinia.
Strategos Staurakios of Sardinia 'the Accursed' lost the war against Basileus Romanos of the Byzantine Empire 'the Saint'.
Romanos Isauros usurped the Duchy of Sardinia from Staurakios Oristani.

- 928 -
Tens of thousands of crows birds invaded Korinthos just before the harvest, causing much damage to the farmers's fields.

- 929 -
A star fell from the sky in Dorostotum, killing three cows.

- 930 -
The army of Basileus Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategitissa Theodora of Cilicia, was victorious in the battle of Adana against the armies of Barsbek's Host.
The army of Basileus Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Gennadios of Dyrrachion, was victorious in the battle of Kakheti against the armies of Zabergan's Host.
Empress Cunigunda, the wife of Basileus Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, died of depression on 17 June, 930.
King Waifar II of Burgundy supported King Waifar II of Burgundy in war against his enemies.
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Khazar realm of Korsunian Peasant Revolt, ruled by Çat'n.

- 931 -
The army of Basileus Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Gennadios of Dyrrachion, was victorious in the battle of Thrake against the armies of Kayghalagh's Host.
The army of Basileus Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Niketas, was victorious in the battle of Oleshye against the armies of Korsunian Peasant Revolt.
Çat'n of Korsunian Peasant Revolt lost the war against Basileus Romanos of the Byzantine Empire 'the Saint'.

- 932 -
The army of Basileus Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Megistos of Paphlagonia, was victorious in the battle of Lazike against the armies of Yabghu's Host.
Caliph Faruk declared a Jihad, wherein all unfaithful Sunnis were called to conquer Egypt from the Orthodoxs.
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Bedouin realm of the Abbasid Empire, ruled by Caliph Faruk 'the Mutilator'.
The army of Basileus Romanos of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Bishop Theodoros of Montgisard, was defeated in the battle of Acre against the armies of the Abbasid Empire.

- 933 -
Basileus Romanos of the Byzantine Empire died a natural death on 5 March, 933. His son, Demetrios, succeeded to the throne of the Empire with a grand ceremony in Constantinople.

the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Greek realm of Zeta, ruled by Count Pamphilios.
Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire tried but failed to imprison Count Pamphilios of Zeta, causing him to come out in open rebellion.
Owner lost Venezia to the forces of Sheikh Takfarinas of Al Djazair.

- 934 -
The Jihad declared by Faruk Abbasid ended in defeat as the armies failed to conquer Egypt.
Caliph Faruk 'the Mutilator' lost the war against Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire.
Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, through deeds and character, came to be known as Basileus Demetrios 'the Great'.
Count Pamphilios of Zeta lost the war against Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire 'the Great'.

- 935 -
Heracleus Isauros married Countess Tiborg, daughter of Count Raimond of Zeeland.
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Greek realm of Charsianon, ruled by Strategos Damianos III 'the Just'.
Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire 'the Great' tried but failed to imprison Strategos Damianos III of Charsianon 'the Just', causing him to come out in open rebellion.

- 936 -
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Markos, was victorious in the battle of Ancyra against the armies of Charsianon.
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Megistos of Paphlagonia, was victorious in the battle of Lykandos against the armies of Armeniacon.
Strategos Damianos III of Charsianon 'the Just' lost the war against Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire 'the Great'.
Demetrios Isauros usurped the Duchy of Armeniacon from Kallinikos Klokas.

- 937 -
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Greek realm of Athens, ruled by Strategos Prokopios II.
Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire 'the Great' tried but failed to imprison Strategos Prokopios II of Athens, causing him to come out in open rebellion.
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Megistos of Paphlagonia, was victorious in the battle of Thessalia against the armies of Athens.
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Megistos of Paphlagonia, was victorious in the battle of Árta against the armies of Athens.

- 938 -
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Megistos of Paphlagonia, was victorious in the battle of Árta against the armies of Athens.
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Megistos of Paphlagonia, was victorious in the battle of Hellas against the armies of Athens.
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Megistos of Paphlagonia, was victorious in the battle of Atheniai against the armies of Athens.
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Megistos of Paphlagonia, was victorious in the battle of Hellas against the armies of Athens.
Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire married Princess Adelperga, daughter of King Hilmagis I of France.
Strategos Prokopios II of Athens lost the war against Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire 'the Great'.
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Khazar realm of Tmutarakan, ruled by Chief Yabghu.
Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire 'the Great' tried but failed to imprison Chief Yabghu of Tmutarakan, causing him to come out in open rebellion.

- 939 -
Count Yabghu of Tmutarakan lost the war against Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire 'the Great'.
Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire went to war against Khagan Bulan II of Khazaria.
Isidoros, the firstborn son, was born to Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire.

- 940 -
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Megistos of Paphlagonia, was victorious in the battle of Piombino against the armies of Khazaria.
Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire 'the Great' won the war against Khagan Bulan II of Khazaria 'the Tormentor'.
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Greek realm of Thracesia, ruled by Strategos Eudokimos.
Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire 'the Great' tried but failed to imprison Strategos Eudokimos of Thracesia, causing him to come out in open rebellion.
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Markos, was victorious in the battle of Dorylaion against the armies of Thracesia.
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Greek realm of Adrianopolitan Peasant Revolt, ruled by Bartholomaios.

- 941 -
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Markos, was victorious in the battle of Kaliopolis against the armies of Adrianopolitan Peasant Revolt.
Bartholomaios of Adrianopolitan Peasant Revolt lost the war against Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire 'the Great'.
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Markos, was victorious in the battle of Dorylaion against the armies of Thracesia.

- 942 -
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Markos, was victorious in the battle of Attaleia against the armies of Thracesia.
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Markos, was victorious in the battle of Dorylaion against the armies of Trebizond.
Strategos Eudokimos of Thracesia 'the Old' lost the war against Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire 'the Great'.
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Greek realm of Trebizond, ruled by Strategos Kallinikos 'the Chaste'.
Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire 'the Great' tried but failed to imprison Strategos Kallinikos of Trebizond 'the Chaste', causing him to come out in open rebellion.

- 943 -
An uncommonly great number of children were born this year in Lukania.

- 944 -
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Markos, was victorious in the battle of Sinope against the armies of Trebizond.
Strategos Kallinikos of Trebizond 'the Chaste' lost the war against Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire 'the Great'.

- 945 -
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Markos, was victorious in the battle of Rama against the armies of Styrbjörn's Host.

- 946 -
A goat with three heads was born in Urgell.

- 947 -
A river flooded parts of Achaia in the spring.

- 948 -
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Greek realm of Cilicia, ruled by Strategitissa Theodora 'Ironside'.
Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire 'the Great' tried but failed to imprison Strategitissa Theodora of Cilicia 'Ironside', causing her to come out in open rebellion.
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Isaakios II of Krete, was victorious in the battle of Ikonion against the armies of Cilicia.

- 949 -
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Markos, was victorious in the battle of Melitene against the armies of Cilicia.
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Markos, was victorious in the battle of Doliche against the armies of the Abbasid Empire.
Duchess Theodora of Cilicia 'Ironside' lost the war against Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire 'the Great'.
Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire went to war against Sultan Sabah of the Abderahman Sultanate.

- 950 -
Demetrios Isauros usurped the Duchy of Tuscany from Chlotsuintha Walpertingi.

- 951 -
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Captain Sturla of Varangian Guard, was victorious in the battle of Cephalonia against the armies of Al Djazair.
Ecumenical Patriarch Alexios II, leader of all Orthodox faithful, died a natural death on 13 September, 951.
Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire 'the Great' won the war against Sultan Sabah of the Abderahman Sultanate.
Demetrios Isauros usurped the County of Cairo from Bersi Gárdske.

- 952 -
A river flooded parts of Nikopolis in the spring.

- 953 -
Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire went to war against Badshah Amr of the Umayyad Empire.
Ecumenical Patriarch Neophytos, leader of all Orthodox faithful, died under suspicious circumstances on 13 November, 953.

- 954 -
Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire 'the Great' won the war against Badshah Sanyo of the Umayyad Empire.

- 955 -
Demetrios Isauros created the title of Duchy of Seville, confirming his growing power with much ceremony and celebration.

- 956 -
Demetrios Isauros created the title of Kingdom of Wallachia, confirming his growing power with much ceremony and celebration.
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Mayor Damianos of Chrysopolis, was victorious in the battle of Koloneia against the armies of Kaya's Host.
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Mayor Damianos of Chrysopolis, was victorious in the battle of Trapezous against the armies of Bulan's Host.
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Khazar realm of Khazarian Liberation Revolt, ruled by Baghatur.
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Isaakios II of Krete, was victorious in the battle of Theodosia against the armies of Khazarian Liberation Revolt.
Baghatur of Khazarian Liberation Revolt lost the war against Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire 'the Great'.

- 957 -
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Isaakios II of Krete, was victorious in the battle of Diadora against the armies of Kettilmund's Host.

- 958 -
The Fraticelli heresy spread its woeful presence in the county of Mesembria.
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Bulgarian realm of Fraticelli Uprising, ruled by Viseslav.
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Isaakios II of Krete, was victorious in the battle of Dorostotum against the armies of Fraticelli Uprising.
Viseslav of Fraticelli Uprising lost the war against Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire 'the Great'.

- 959 -
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Isaakios II of Krete, was victorious in the battle of Krounoi against the armies of Bashtwa's Host.

- 960 -
A river flooded parts of Kroton in the spring.

- 961 -
Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire went to war against High Chief Bataul of Pest.

- 962 -
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Isaakios II of Krete, was victorious in the battle of Heves against the armies of Pest.
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Isaakios II of Krete, was victorious in the battle of Bihar against the armies of Pest.
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Isaakios II of Krete, was victorious in the battle of Heves against the armies of Pest.
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Vlach realm of Naissos, ruled by Count Barbat 'the Wise'.
Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire 'the Great' tried but failed to imprison Count Barbat of Naissos 'the Wise', causing him to come out in open rebellion.
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Isaakios II of Krete, was victorious in the battle of Bacs against the armies of Pest.
Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire 'the Great' won the war against High Chief Bataul of Pest 'the Wolf'.
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Staurakios of Barcelona, was victorious in the battle of Severin against the armies of Naissos.

- 963 -
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Staurakios of Barcelona, was victorious in the battle of Tirgoviste against the armies of Karadakh's Host.
Count Radovan of Naissos lost the war against Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire 'the Great'.
Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire went to war against Khagan Bälgiçi II of Khazaria.
Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire went to war against Khagan Bashtwa of Khazaria.
Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire went to war against King Þorbjörn of France.

- 964 -
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Mayor Antiochos of Peritheorion, was victorious in the battle of Brendesion against the armies of Khazaria.
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Mayor Antiochos of Peritheorion, was victorious in the battle of Apulia against the armies of Khazaria.
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Mayor Antiochos of Peritheorion, was victorious in the battle of Pisa against the armies of Khazaria.
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Mayor Antiochos of Peritheorion, was victorious in the battle of Ferrara against the armies of Khazaria.

- 965 -
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Kyriakos of Charsianon, was victorious in the battle of Adrianopolis against the armies of Bälgiçi's Host.
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Greek realm of Prince Heracleus's Host, ruled by Heracleus.
Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire 'the Great' won the war against Khagan Bashtwa of Khazaria.
Demetrios Isauros usurped the Duchy of Pereyaslavl from Hermenfred Petringi.
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Kyriakos of Charsianon, was victorious in the battle of Mesembria against the armies of Tabghaç's Host.
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Mayor Athanasios of Mamistra, was victorious in the battle of Doliche against the armies of Sartäç's Host.
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Mayor Makarios of Almonte, was victorious in the battle of Seville against the armies of Yves's Host.
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Ioustinianos, was victorious in the battle of Korinthos against the armies of Sveinn's Host.

- 966 -
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Mayor Antiochos of Peritheorion, was victorious in the battle of Singidounon against the armies of Prince Heracleus's Host.
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Staurakios of Barcelona, was victorious in the battle of Bononia against the armies of Prince Heracleus's Host.
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Mayor Antiochos of Peritheorion, was victorious in the battle of Singidounon against the armies of Prince Heracleus's Host.
Prince Heracleus of the Byzantine Empire lost the war against Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire 'the Great'.
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Staurakios of Barcelona, was victorious in the battle of Nikomedeia against the armies of Folki's Host.
Owner lost Venezia to the forces of Sheikh Adum of Al Djazair.

- 967 -
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Mayor Antiochos of Peritheorion, was victorious in the battle of Poitiers against the armies of French Revolt.
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Mayor Antiochos of Peritheorion, was victorious in the battle of Bourges against the armies of France.
Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire 'the Great' won the war against King Þorbjörn of France 'the Just'.
Basileus Demetrios held a grand tournament, inviting all the great lords and knights of the realm.

- 968 -
Prince Isidoros of the Byzantine Empire married Countess Brigit, daughter of Chieftess Sláíne of Na Rannaibh.

- 969 -
Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire went to war against Badshah Abdul-Aziz of the Umayyad Empire.
Baron Isidoros of Prodromos was imprisoned in a dungeon in Constantinople by Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire.

- 970 -
Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire 'the Great' won the war against Badshah Abdul-Aziz of the Umayyad Empire.
Demetrios Isauros created the title of Kingdom of Sardinia and Corsica, confirming his growing power with much ceremony and celebration.

- 971 -
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Exarch Nikephoros of Sicily, was victorious in the battle of Gaeta against the armies of Skuli's Host.

- 972 -
Prince Samuel of the Byzantine Empire married Sophia, daughter of Strategos Georgios of Paphlagonia.
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos David of Thracesia, was victorious in the battle of Belgorod against the armies of Boris's Host.
Demetrios Isauros created the title of Duchy of Aswan, confirming his growing power with much ceremony and celebration.

- 973 -
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Serbian realm of Samos, ruled by Strategitissa Elena 'the Unfaithful'.
Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire 'the Great' tried but failed to imprison Strategitissa Elena of Samos 'the Unfaithful', causing her to come out in open rebellion.
Prince Samuel, the heir of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, died of Smallpox on 11 August, 973.
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Captain Þorgil of Varangian Guard, was victorious in the battle of Lykia against the armies of Samos.
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Captain Þorgil of Varangian Guard, was victorious in the battle of Nikaea against the armies of Samos.

- 974 -
Demetrios Isauros usurped the Duchy of Nobatia from Ali Abderahman.
Strategitissa Elena of Samos 'the Unfaithful' lost the war against Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire 'the Great'.
Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire supported Empress Adelperga of the Byzantine Empire in war against her enemies.
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Demetrios II of Epirus, was victorious in the battle of Koloneia against the armies of Barsbek's Host.
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Nubian realm of Sunni Uprising, ruled by Aarôn.

- 975 -
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Alexandros, was victorious in the battle of Nubia against the armies of Sunni Uprising.
Aarôn of Sunni Uprising lost the war against Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire 'the Great'.

- 976 -
Empress Adelperga, the wife of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, was killed by a lightning strike on 18 December, 976.

- 977 -
Despot Isaakios of France married Queen Wulfthryth, daughter of Earl Wulf of Sussex.
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Greek realm of Nikaea, ruled by Strategos Andronikos.
Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire 'the Great' tried but failed to imprison Strategos Andronikos of Nikaea, causing him to come out in open rebellion.
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Alexandros, was victorious in the battle of Prusa against the armies of Nikaea.
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Alexandros, was victorious in the battle of Nikaea against the armies of Nikaea.
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Mayor Antiochos of Peritheorion, was victorious in the battle of Diadora against the armies of Zachlumia.
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Alexandros, was victorious in the battle of Dorylaion against the armies of Nikaea.

- 978 -
Strategos Andronikos of Nikaea lost the war against Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire 'the Great'.
Demetrios Isauros created the title of Kingdom of Khazaria, confirming his growing power with much ceremony and celebration.
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Chief Neophytos of Novgorod Seversky, was victorious in the battle of Thrake against the armies of Nazareno's Host.
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the Bulgarian realm of Byzantine Revolt, ruled by Bozidar.
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Eudoxios of Barcelona, was victorious in the battle of Mesembria against the armies of Byzantine Revolt.
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Eudoxios of Barcelona, was victorious in the battle of Dorostotum against the armies of Byzantine Revolt.
Demetrios Isauros usurped the Duchy of Cairo from Halsten Gárdske.
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Eudoxios of Barcelona, was victorious in the battle of Nikopolis against the armies of Byzantine Revolt.

- 979 -
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Eudoxios of Barcelona, was victorious in the battle of Mesembria against the armies of Byzantine Revolt.
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Eudoxios of Barcelona, was victorious in the battle of Arsa against the armies of Byzantine Revolt.
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Strategos Eudoxios of Barcelona, was victorious in the battle of Karvuna against the armies of Byzantine Revolt.

- 980 -
Bozidar of Byzantine Revolt lost the war against Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire 'the Great'.
Demetrios Isauros created the title of Duchy of Bryansk, confirming his growing power with much ceremony and celebration.
Demetrios Isauros created the title of Kingdom of Bulgaria, confirming his growing power with much ceremony and celebration.
Demetrios Isauros usurped the Duchy of Damietta from Abu-Bakr Azamid.
Demetrios Isauros usurped the Kingdom of Egypt from Kemaladdin Abderahman.
Demetrios Isauros usurped the Duchy of Sarkel from Vasiliy.
The army of Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Mayor Antiochos of Peritheorion, was victorious in the battle of Thrake against the armies of Baghid.

- 981 -
Basileus Demetrios of the Byzantine Empire died of severe stress on 13 December, 981. His Anglo-Saxon son Isaakios succeeded to the throne of the Empire as Emperor Isaakios.

the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the French realm of Berry, ruled by Duchess Denise.
Emperor Isaakios of the Byzantine Empire tried but failed to imprison Duchess Denise of Berry, causing her to come out in open rebellion.

- 982 -
The army of Emperor Isaakios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Count Bosporios of Bacs, was victorious in the battle of Fejer against the armies of Csanadian Peasant Revolt.
The army of Emperor Isaakios of the Byzantine Empire, commanded by Mayor Antiochos of Peritheorion, was victorious in the battle of Trapezous against the armies of Kibar's Host.
Duchess Denise of Berry lost the war against Emperor Isaakios of the Byzantine Empire.
the Byzantine Empire was attacked by the French realm of Châteauroux, ruled by Mayor Josselin.
Emperor Isaakios of the Byzantine Empire tried but failed to imprison Mayor Josselin of Châteauroux, causing him to come out in open rebellion.
Mayor Josselin of Châteauroux lost the war against Emperor Isaakios of the Byzantine Empire.
Isaakios Isauros created the title of Duchy of Kartli, confirming his growing power with much ceremony and celebration.
Sumarliði of French Revolt lost the war against Emperor Isaakios of the Byzantine Empire.

- 983 -
Villagers saw blood raining from the sky in the county of Alexandretta.


